Why is Accounting important?
The information system that identifies and record, and communicate economic events to users.
3 types of accountant:
Private accountants: for business
Public accountant: up for hire, help to do taxes
Not For Profit: government
Field of accounting:
Financial accounting
Managerial accounting
Taxation
Accounting related field

Professional certification in Canada: Chartered Professional Accountants (CPA)

What is Accounting:
Accounting is a process that involves collecting information, recording it, and then reporting it to various decision makers (USERS).
Users of Accounting Information
There are two broad groups of users of accounting information: internal users and external users.
Internal users of accounting information plan, organize, and run companies. They work for the company.
This includes finance directors, marketing managers, human resources personnel, production supervisors, and company officers.
Finance
Marketing
Human resources
Production

There are several types of external users of accounting information. Investors, who are owners—or
potential owners—of the business, use accounting information to make decisions to buy, hold, or sell,
their ownership interest. Creditors—persons or other businesses that are owed money by the business,
such as suppliers and bankers—use accounting information to evaluate the risks of granting credit or
lending money. Investors and creditors are the main external users of accounting information, but there
are also many other external users with a large variety of information needs and questions.

Forms of business organization
Proprietorship: A business owned by one person is a proprietorship. The owner is usually the operator of the business. Small service businesses (hair stylists, plumbers, and mechanics), farms, and small retail stores (antique shops, corner grocery stores, and independent bookstores) are often proprietorships.
The profits of the business are reported and taxed on the owners personal income tax return. However, for accounting purposes, the records of the proprietorship’s business activities are kept separate from the personal records and activities of the owner. This is consistent with the economic entity concept, which will be introduced later in this chapter.

Partnership: A business owned by two or more persons who are associated as partners is a partnership. Typically, a partnership agreement (written or oral) defines the initial investments of each partner, the duties of each partner, how profit (or loss) will be divided, and what the settlement will be if a partner dies or withdraws.

Corporation:
A business that is organized (incorporated) as a separate legal entity under federal or provincial corporate law is a corporation. A corporation is responsible for its debts and paying taxes on its profits. A corporation’s ownership is divided into transferable shares.


